The Government also Approves:

The Republic Act No. 10631
[REPUBLIC ACT NO. 10631]
Begun and held in Metro Manila, on Monday, the twenty-third day of July, two thousand twelve.

AN ACT AMENDING CERTAIN SECTIONS OF REPUBLIC ACT NO. 8485, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS “THE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT OF 1998”


“SECTION 1. It is the purpose of this Act to protect and promote the welfare of all terrestrial, aquatic and marine animals in the Philippines by supervising and regulating the establishment and operations of all facilities utilized for breeding, maintaining, keeping, treating or training of all animals either as objects of trade or as household pets. For purposes of this Act, pet animal shall include birds.


“SEC. 6. It shall be unlawful for any person to torture any animal, to neglect to provide adequate care, sustenance of shelter, or maltreat any animal or to subject any dog or horse to dogfights or horsefights, kill or cause or procure to be tortured or deprived of adequate care, sustenance or shelter, or maltreat or use the same in research or experiments not expressly authorized by the Committee on Animal Welfare.

“SEC. 7. It shall be unlawful for any person who has custody of an animal to abandon the animal.

“SEC. 9. Any person who subjects any animal to cruelty, maltreatment or neglect shall, upon conviction by final judgment, be punished by imprisonment and/ or fine, as indicated in the following graduated scale:

“(1) Imprisonment of one (1) year and six (6) months and one (1) day to two (2) years and/or a fine not exceeding One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000.00) if the animal subjected to cruelty, maltreatment or neglect dies;

“(2) Imprisonment of one (1) year and one (1) day to one (1) year and six (6) months and/or a fine not exceeding Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000.00) if the animal subjected to cruelty, maltreatment or neglect survives but is severely injured with loss of its natural faculty to survive on its own and needing human intervention to sustain its life; and

“(3) Imprisonment of six (6) months to one (1) year and/or a fine not exceeding Thirty thousand pesos (P30,000.00) for subjecting any animal to cruelty, maltreatment or neglect but without causing its death or incapacitating it to survive on its own.

“If the violation is committed by a juridical person, the officer responsible thereof shall serve the imprisonment. If the violation is committed by an alien, he or she shall be immediately deported after the service of sentence without any further proceeding.

“The foregoing penalties shall also apply for any other violation of this Act, depending upon the effect or result of the act or omission as defined in the immediately preceding sections.

“However, regardless of the resulting condition to the animal/s, the penalty of two (2) years and one (1) day to three (3) years and/or a fine not exceeding Two hundred fifty thousand pesos (P250,000.00) shall be imposed if the offense is committed by any of the following: (1) a syndicate; (2) an offender who makes business out of cruelty to an animal; (3) a public officer or employee; or (4) where at least three (3) animals are involved.

“SEC. 10. The Secretary of the Department of Agriculture shall deputize animal welfare enforcement officers from nongovernment organizations, citizens groups, community organizations and other volunteers who have undergone the necessary training for this purpose. The Philippine National Police, the National Bureau of Investigation and other law enforcement agencies shall designate animal welfare enforcement officers. As such, animal welfare enforcement officers shall have the authority to seize and rescue illegally traded and maltreated animals and to arrest violators of this Act subject to the guidelines of existing laws and rules and regulations on arrest and detention.

Approved,
(Sgd.) FELICIANO BELMONTE JR.
Speaker of the House
of Representatives

(Sgd.) JINGGOY EJERCITO ESTRADA
Acting Senate President

This Act which is a consolidation of Senate Bill No. 3329 and House Bill No. 6893 was finally passed by the Senate and the House of Representatives on June 6, 2013.

(Sgd.) MARILYN B. BARUA-YAP
Secretary General
House of Representatives

(Sgd.) EMMA LIRIO-REYES
Secretary of the Senate

Approved: OCT 03 2013

(Sgd.) BENIGNO S. AQUINO III
President of the Philippines

 Source: http://www.gov.ph/downloads/2013/10oct/20131003-RA-10631-BSA.pdf

 <a href ="http://www.gov.ph/2013/10/03/republic-act-no-10631/" title = "R.A. 10631">Read the full RA here</a> 